# BINARY-ATTACK-DETECTION-AND-ALERT-SYSTEM
Cyber-attacks are one of the emerging topics in recent times as lots of private and public network infrastructure and databases have suffered from various forms of cyber-attacks. 
This project aimed to create a two-tier artificial intelligence-based network intrusion detection and alert system that can detect anomalous instances from network traffic and alert a network administrator of such an occurrence in real time.
For this project the UNSW-NB15 dataset was sourced from Kaggle and used for training and testing purposes. Both systems (detection and alert) were then developed in an Anaconda environment. To better understanding and visualize the relationship of individual features and attributes of the datasets, exploratory data analysis was carried out.
Next, the datasets were pre-processed to organize the data and get rid of redundant data. Then feature engineering, feature scaling, feature selection, and encoding operations were performed on the datasets. 
Three models were then built with ML algorithms (Random Forest, Decision Trees, KNN), the models were tested, and predictions were made based on performance evaluation metrics considered to select the best fit model for the detection and alert system.
Finally, an email and log alert system was developed to notify an administrator whenever anomalous traffic was detected. The system basically first identifies anomalous traffic and then further classifies this traffic into different sub-categories of threats. A log summary file clearly describing the attack type and number of relevant detection count is then sent to the network administrator in real-time. 
Researchers implementing AI based cyber threat detection and alert system for any government, business or individual will find this project beneficial as traditional firewalls and antivirus software used in network intrusion detection systems cannot be completely relied on to mitigate the risk of network traffic threats and anomalies.
